# LinuxGSM Config

> Note: LinuxGSM and game server configs are different. One is the config for LinuxGSM itself and the other is for the game server instance.

LinuxGSM manages its configuration using multiple config files. It is important you understand how these config files work.

## Location

Relative to your installation directory, config files are located in:

`lgsm/config-lgsm/gameserver`

## Configuration Mechanism

The current config files management is meant to allow the users to more easily benefit from new features, better manage multiple instances and allow the auto update of `./gameserver` script file \(previously manual updating was required\).

### Configuration files

#### \_default.cfg

`_default.cfg` is your template: you cannot edit this file. It is meant to always be defaulted and is automatically updated; this allows the addition of new features and provides default settings to start with. Do not edit this file you will lose any changes you save.

**common.cfg**

`common.cfg` is used when running multiple instances of the same installation \(see [**m**ultiple game servers](../to-do/multiple-game-servers.md)\). This configuration file is shared for all instances; it is very handy to change all recurring settings at once.

#### instance.cfg

* `instance.cfg` is the main configuration file: each game server's \(instance\) configuration file. This file takes the same name as your game server script name \(instance name\), for example `csgoserver.cfg`.

### Config Load Priority

When LinuxGSM is loading the configs they will load in order. First taking settings from `_default.cfg` then `common.cfg` and finally `instance.cfg`. It means that any parameter set in `instance.cfg` will override that parameter in `common.cfg` which will override the parameter in `_default.cfg`.

You can mix and match settings to suit your needs, using `_default.cfg` as a baseline.

## How to use

**Warning**: When changing a variable that affects start parameters, or any other variable that are used later in the configuration file, you should always make sure that you copied the variable or function that is using it. For example, if changing `maxplayers=""`, you need to copy over the `fn_parms(){}` entirely as well so that it can take effect. If unsure, do as advised in the "Simple configuration" method and copy the whole template to your configuration file and you will be just fine.

### Simple configuration

This fits most scenarios, where you have a simple installation with only one instance.

1\) Browse to the `config-lgsm` directory  
`cd lgsm/config-lgsm/`

2\) Use `ls` to view the content and find the name of your instance \(typically the name of your LinuxGSM server instance\)  
`ls`

3\) Copy the default config to your instance's config  
`cat _default.cfg >> instance.cfg`  
\(replace "instance.cfg" by your actual instance config name, for example "csgoserver.cfg" or "csgoserver-2.cfg"\)

Now you can edit your instance file that contains all of your LinuxGSM and start parameters configuration.

4\) \(Optional\) Remove any part of the config of your `instance.cfg` that you want defaulted to benefit from new default settings automatically added in `_default.cfg`.

### Multiple instances configuration

> This is only useful when running multiple instances of this install as per \[\[Multiple Game Servers\]\].

1\) Start by copying `_default.cfg` to `common.cfg`  
`cat _default.cfg >> common.cfg`

2\) \(Optional\) Remove any part of the config of your `common.cfg` that you want defaulted to benefit from new default settings automatically added in `_default.cfg`

3\) Then edit your multiple `instance.cfg` files manually, copying the parameters that you need to be customized. It's best to use two SSH windows to be more efficient. Usually, you will want to set individually the IP, ports, server name and map if applicable, and set the rest from `common.cfg` or from `_default.cfg`

4\) Then you can check that your servers work properly together, stop those you need to work on, and work on your \[\[Game Server Config\]\]

### Examples

Any setting listed in `instance.cfg` will override `common.cfg` which will override `_default.cfg`. And the other way around, any setting that is not listed in `instance.cfg` will take the value of the first parent config file where the value is set.

#### Example 1

Load `de_nuke` as default map on "csgoserver": \_default.cfg: defaultmap="de\_dust2" common.cfg: NOT SET csgoserver.cfg: defaultmap="de\_nuke"

#### Example 2

Load `cs_office` as default map on "csgoserver":

```text
_default.cfg: defaultmap="de_dust2"
common.cfg: defaultmap="cs_office"
csgoserver.cfg: NOT SET
```

#### Example 3

Load `de_dust2` as default map on "instance":

```text
_default.cfg: defaultmap="de_dust2"
common.cfg: NOT SET
instance.cfg: NOT SET
```

#### Example 4

Load `de_nuke` as default map on "myawesomeinstance" and `de_inferno` on "mynewserver":

```text
_default.cfg: defaultmap="de_dust2"
common.cfg: defaultmap="de_inferno"
nukeonly.cfg: defaultmap="de_nuke"
mynewserver.cfg: NOT SET
```

